Adding landscape lighting to your home can really enhance your outdoor space, and make your property safer too. But those that choose the DIY method tend to encounter the same issues and problems that can make your system a lot less efficient. Learning what these mistakes are will help when you speak to a professional installer, as you can be confident you’re working with a reliable contractor who’ll create a system that’s built to last, and simple to use too.
Poor wire connections
Using the wrong wire types, or choosing cables that aren’t designed for outdoor use at all, can make hard work of installing your system. You need to cut and splice them to make sure they’re waterproof, and you can’t be sure they’re safe from the elements, leading to potential corrosion. That’s why we partner with Coastal Source in Vaughan, Toronto. Their wires are specifically designed for use outdoors, and with their ‘Plug-n-Play’ connectors, they link together with a simple twist, creating a tight connection that keeps them safe in the long term.
No control solution
It’s easy to get distracted by the look of your outdoor lighting, and not consider how you’re going to manage it. If you leave the lights on all the time, you’re wasting energy and, especially during the day, not even enjoying the benefit. By adding some automated controls using smart home lighting, you can ensure your system is only switched on when suitable. This may sound complex, but it’s simply the use of motion sensors and schedules, so your lights turn on according to a timer, or when you’re walking past them, perfect for pathway lights.
Flat lighting design
Landscape lighting isn’t as simple as adding a few fixtures in different places. If you don’t think the design though, you can end up with a space that looks flat and dull. You don’t need a huge range of different lights to help alleviate this – it can be managed through your control system. By having the option to change the colour temperature or intensity your outdoor lighting, you can create contrast and shadow that add depth to your space, making it much more inviting.
If you want to make sure your landscape lighting investment is worth the cost, make sure you employ a professional who can help you avoid these common mistakes. Whether you’re looking for outdoor lighting in Vaughan or further afield, get in touch with Audio One for a customised solution that’s tailored to bring out your home’s best features.

